DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# Deploying to Vercel

This guide will walk you through the process of deploying the Party Function Hall Management System to Vercel.

## Prerequisites

1. A GitHub account
2. A Vercel account (you can sign up at [vercel.com](https://vercel.com) using your GitHub account)
3. A MongoDB Atlas account for the database (or any MongoDB hosting service)

## Step 1: Prepare Your MongoDB Database

1. Create a MongoDB Atlas account if you don't have one already
2. Create a new cluster
3. Create a database user with read/write permissions
4. Add your IP address to the IP whitelist (or allow access from anywhere for development)
5. Get your MongoDB connection string, which should look like:
   ```
   mongodb+srv://username:password@cluster0.xxxxx.mongodb.net/party-hall-booking?retryWrites=true&w=majority
   ```

## Step 2: Push Your Code to GitHub

1. Create a new GitHub repository
2. Initialize Git in your project folder (if not already done):
   ```bash
   git init
   ```
3. Add all files to Git:
   ```bash
   git add .
   ```
4. Commit your changes:
   ```bash
   git commit -m "Initial commit"
   ```
5. Add your GitHub repository as a remote:
   ```bash
   git remote add origin https://github.com/yourusername/your-repo-name.git
   ```
6. Push your code to GitHub:
   ```bash
   git push -u origin main
   ```

## Step 3: Deploy to Vercel

1. Sign in to Vercel with your GitHub account
2. Click "New Project"
3. Import your GitHub repository
4. Configure the project:
   - Framework Preset: Next.js
   - Root Directory: ./
5. Add the following environment variables:
   - `MONGODB_URI`: Your MongoDB connection string
   - `NEXTAUTH_URL`: The URL of your deployed application (you can use the Vercel preview URL initially and update it later)
   - `NEXTAUTH_SECRET`: A secure random string for session encryption (you can generate one with `openssl rand -base64 32`)
6. Click "Deploy"

## Step 4: Seed the Database

After deployment, you need to seed your database with initial data. You have two options:

### Option 1: Run the seed scripts locally

1. Make sure your `.env.local` file has the correct MongoDB URI pointing to your production database
2. Run the seed scripts:
   ```bash
   npm run seed-all
   ```

### Option 2: Use the Vercel CLI to run the seed scripts

1. Install the Vercel CLI:
   ```bash
   npm i -g vercel
   ```
2. Login to Vercel:
   ```bash
   vercel login
   ```
3. Link your project:
   ```bash
   vercel link
   ```
4. Pull the environment variables:
   ```bash
   vercel env pull .env.local
   ```
5. Run the seed scripts:
   ```bash
   npm run seed-all
   ```

## Step 5: Share Your Application

Once deployed, you can share the Vercel URL with others. They will be able to access the application using the admin login credentials:

- Email: admin@partyhall.com
- Password: Admin@123

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter any issues during deployment, check the following:

1. Make sure your MongoDB connection string is correct and the database user has the right permissions
2. Check that all environment variables are set correctly in the Vercel dashboard
3. Review the build logs in the Vercel dashboard for any errors
4. Make sure your MongoDB Atlas cluster allows connections from Vercel's IP addresses (you might need to allow access from anywhere for simplicity)

## Updating Your Deployment

Any changes pushed to your GitHub repository's main branch will automatically trigger a new deployment on Vercel.

Commit message:

docs: update deployment guide with detailed troubleshooting steps and simplify Vercel config

DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# Deploying to Vercel

This guide will walk you through the process of deploying the Party Function Hall Management System to Vercel.

## Prerequisites

1. A GitHub account
2. A Vercel account (you can sign up at [vercel.com](https://vercel.com) using your GitHub account)
3. A MongoDB Atlas account for the database (or any MongoDB hosting service)

## Step 1: Prepare Your MongoDB Database

1. Create a MongoDB Atlas account if you don't have one already
2. Create a new cluster
3. Create a database user with read/write permissions
4. Add your IP address to the IP whitelist (or allow access from anywhere for development)
5. Get your MongoDB connection string, which should look like:
   ```
   mongodb+srv://username:password@cluster0.xxxxx.mongodb.net/party-hall-booking?retryWrites=true&w=majority
   ```

## Step 2: Push Your Code to GitHub

1. Create a new GitHub repository
2. Initialize Git in your project folder (if not already done):
   ```bash
   git init
   ```
3. Add all files to Git:
   ```bash
   git add .
   ```
4. Commit your changes:
   ```bash
   git commit -m "Initial commit"
   ```
5. Add your GitHub repository as a remote:
   ```bash
   git remote add origin https://github.com/yourusername/your-repo-name.git
   ```
6. Push your code to GitHub:
   ```bash
   git push -u origin main
   ```

## Step 3: Deploy to Vercel

1. Sign in to Vercel with your GitHub account
2. Click "New Project"
3. Import your GitHub repository
4. Configure the project:
   - Framework Preset: Next.js
   - Root Directory: ./
5. Add the following environment variables in the Vercel dashboard (Settings > Environment Variables):
   - `MONGODB_URI`: Your MongoDB connection string from step 1
   - `NEXTAUTH_URL`: Set this to your Vercel deployment URL (e.g., `https://your-project-name.vercel.app`)
   - `NEXTAUTH_SECRET`: A secure random string for session encryption (you can generate one with `npm run generate-secret`)
6. Click "Deploy"

## Step 4: Seed the Database

After deployment, you need to seed your database with initial data. You have two options:

### Option 1: Run the seed scripts locally

1. Make sure your `.env.local` file has the correct MongoDB URI pointing to your production database
2. Run the seed scripts:
   ```bash
   npm run seed-all
   ```

### Option 2: Use the Vercel CLI to run the seed scripts

1. Install the Vercel CLI:
   ```bash
   npm i -g vercel
   ```
2. Login to Vercel:
   ```bash
   vercel login
   ```
3. Link your project:
   ```bash
   vercel link
   ```
4. Pull the environment variables:
   ```bash
   vercel env pull .env.local
   ```
5. Run the seed scripts:
   ```bash
   npm run seed-all
   ```

## Step 5: Share Your Application

Once deployed, you can share the Vercel URL with others. They will be able to access the application using the admin login credentials:

- Email: admin@partyhall.com
- Password: Admin@123

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter any issues during deployment, check the following:

1. **Environment Variable Issues**:
   - Make sure all environment variables are set directly in the Vercel dashboard under Settings > Environment Variables
   - Do not use the `@` prefix in your environment variable values (e.g., use the actual MongoDB URI, not `@mongodb-uri`)
   - Verify that your MongoDB connection string is correct and includes the database name
   - Ensure NEXTAUTH_URL is set to your actual deployment URL

2. **MongoDB Connection Issues**:
   - Make sure your MongoDB Atlas cluster allows connections from Vercel's IP addresses
   - You may need to set Network Access in MongoDB Atlas to "Allow Access from Anywhere" (0.0.0.0/0) for simplicity
   - Verify that your database user has the correct permissions (readWrite)

3. **Build Errors**:
   - Review the build logs in the Vercel dashboard for any errors
   - If you see TypeScript errors, you may need to update your code or add type definitions

4. **Runtime Errors**:
   - Check the Function Logs in the Vercel dashboard for any runtime errors
   - Use the browser console to check for client-side errors

## Updating Your Deployment

Any changes pushed to your GitHub repository's main branch will automatically trigger a new deployment on Vercel.
